added section MXD tutorial 1 data exchange (#97)
eclipse-tractusx/tutorial-resources: mxd/3.1_MXD_tutorial1_dataexchange.md

# Provide and consume data

> As described in the introduction, a data exchange between Bob (Data Provider) and Alice (Data Consumer) is to be tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in the introduction, Bob (Provider) wants to exchange data with Alice (Consumer).
```

Author: Why dont we call the participants Data Provider and Data Consumer? These are the terms stated in the new regulatory framework.

> To maximize the benefit from this tutorial it is recommended to follow the tutorial in the given order.

Reviewer: spurious. water is wet.

## Provide data

> In this step we will focus on inserting data into our participant Alice using

Reviewer: that sounds very weird. 

```suggestion
In this step we will focus on inserting data into our provider connector (Alice) using
```

the [Management API](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/eclipse-edc-bot/management-api). We will use plain
CLI tools (`curl`) for this, but feel free to use graphical tools such as Postman or Insomnia.

Alice, as a data consumer, wants to consume data from Bob. Bob, as a data provider, needs to create an asset for Alice. The data asset should have the following properties:

| ID          | 3                                                                                            |

> |-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer: this table is spurious, and it confuses more than it contributes, as the data shown is also contained in the JSON example further down.

| Description | Product EDC Demo Asset 3                                                                     |
| Type        | HttpData                                                                                     |
| URL         | [https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/3](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/3) |

> Action (Bob): Create this asset using the following curl command:

Reviewer: please do this everywhere:
```suggestion
Action (Bob): Create this asset using the following `curl` command:
```

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/assets' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
    "@context": {},
    "asset": {
        "@type": "Asset",
        "@id": "3", 
        "properties": {
            "description": "Product EDC Demo Asset 3"
        }
    },
    "dataAddress": {
        "@type": "DataAddress",
        "type": "HttpData",
        "baseUrl": "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/3"
    }
}'
```

> Bob tells Alice, that he created an asset, and she should now be able to request it. In the next step, Alice requests a contract offer catalog. In this catalog, all contract offers for Alice are listed.

Reviewer: that is incorrect. Bob tells Alice nothing.

> Bob tells Alice, that he created an asset, and she should now be able to request it. In the next step, Alice requests a contract offer catalog. In this catalog, all contract offers for Alice are listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bob tells Alice, that he created an asset, and she should now be able to request it. In the next step, Alice requests a contract offer catalog. In the catalog, all contract offers for Alice are listed.
```

Action (Alice): Execute a request using the following curl commands:

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/alice/management/v2/catalog/request' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
    "@context": {},
    "protocol": "dataspace-protocol-http",
    "counterPartyAddress": "http://bob-controlplane:8084/api/v1/dsp",
    "querySpec": {
        "offset": 0,
        "limit": 100,
        "filter": "",
        "range": {
            "from": 0,
            "to": 100
        },
        "criterion": ""
    }
}'
```

> Let´s see if Alice can see the Asset (ID:3). Can you find it?

Reviewer: It's not a childrens' book.
```suggestion
Let´s see if Alice can see the Asset (ID:3).
```

As you can see in the response, the data offer "Product EDC Demo Asset 3" (asset ID:3) does not appear. Unfortunately, Alice sees some contract offers but she cannot find the contract offer from Bob.

Alice calls Bob and says she can´t see the asset. Bob remembers that he did not create an access policy. An access policy defines who is allowed to see a data offering.

Action (Bob): Create the access policy using the following curl command:

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/policydefinitions' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
  "@context": {
    "odrl": "http://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/"
  },
  "@type": "PolicyDefinitionRequestDto",

>   "@id": "3",

Reviewer 2: We can update id as `31` so, access policy id will be 31, and contract policy id will be 32.

  "policy": {
    "@type": "Policy"
  }
}' 
```

Bob tells Alice that he has created the right policy. Let´s see if Alice can now find the data asset. Execute the request again using the following curl command:

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/alice/management/v2/catalog/request' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
    "@context": {},
    "protocol": "dataspace-protocol-http",
    "counterPartyAddress": "http://bob-controlplane:8084/api/v1/dsp",
    "querySpec": {
        "offset": 0,
        "limit": 100,
        "filter": "",
        "range": {
            "from": 0,
            "to": 100
        },
        "criterion": ""
    }
}'
```

Let´s see if Alice can see the Asset. Can you find it?

Once again Alice cannot find the data offer. This is by design and to be expected since Bob has only created an asset and a policy definition. An asset and a policy cannot be displayed to Alice as a consumer without a contract definition.

> **This is the first lesson for this tutorial: A contract must be defined between two parties that want to exchange data. This contract must always contain an asset and a policy.**

Reviewer: As it is written, this is incorrect. Contracts are not _defined_, they are _negotiated_. However, if you are referring to `contractDefinitions`, then the sentence must be rewritten to:
```suggestion
**This is the first lesson for this tutorial: A contract definition must be created on the data provider side. It must always contain an asset, an access policy and a contract policy.**
```
You could also link to the relevant [documentation](https://github.com/eclipse-edc/docs/blob/main/developer/handbook.md)

![Contract Definition](assets/components_contract_definition.png)

Action (Bob): Create a contract definition including the asset and the policy you have created. For this, use the following curl command:

```shell
This is the correct curl

curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/contractdefinitions' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
  "@context": {},
  "@id": "3",
  "@type": "ContractDefinition",

>   "accessPolicyId": "3",

Reviewer: it is important to understand, and illustrate, that access policy and contract policy are two **distinct** policies, that serve separate purposes. it is bad practice to use the same policy for both!!

Author: @hemantxpatel

Reviewer 2: @jkbquabeck  create a contract policy just above this step.
```
```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/policydefinitions' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
  "@context": {
    "odrl": "http://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/"
  },
  "@type": "PolicyDefinitionRequestDto",
  "@id": "32",
  "policy": {
    "@type": "Policy"
  }
}' 
```
```

>   "contractPolicyId": "3",

Reviewer 2: Update this line as `"contractPolicyId": "32",`

I think we can update access policy id as 31, so that we will have
`assetId: 3`
`accessPolicyId: 31`
`contractpolicyId: 32`
`contractDefinitionId: 3`

We have used `access policy id: 4` in next tutorial so, we will have to update those. We can avoid if we follow id convention as above.

  "assetsSelector": {
    "@type": "CriterionDto",
    "operandLeft": "https://w3id.org/edc/v0.0.1/ns/id",
    "operator": "=",
    "operandRight": "3"
  }
}'
```

Let´s see if Alice can finally see the Asset.
action (Alice): Execute the request again using the following curl command:

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/alice/management/v2/catalog/request' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
    "@context": {},
    "protocol": "dataspace-protocol-http",
    "counterPartyAddress": "http://bob-controlplane:8084/api/v1/dsp",
    "querySpec": {
        "offset": 0,
        "limit": 100,
        "filter": "",
        "range": {
            "from": 0,
            "to": 100
        },
        "criterion": ""
    }
}'
```

Finally Alice can see the Contract Offer from Bob.

> Congratulations on yor first successful data exchange in your own data sapce!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations on yor first successful data exchange in your own data space!
```

- Contract policy: determines the conditions for initiating a contract negotiation for a particular asset. Note that does not automatically guarantee the successful creation of a contract, it merely expresses the eligibility to start the negotiation.

Find additional information on transferring data in the [Developer's Handbook](https://github.com/eclipse-edc/docs/blob/main/developer/handbook.md).

Since an access policy has already been created, a contract policy must be created and linked in a contract definition.

Action (BoB): Create the contract policy using the following `curl` command:

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/policydefinitions' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
  "[@context":](https://github.com/context":) {
    "odrl": "http://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/"
  },
  "[@type":](https://github.com/type":) "PolicyDefinitionRequestDto",
  "[@id":](https://github.com/id":) "32",
  "policy": {
    "[@type":](https://github.com/type":) "Policy"

>   }

Reviewer 2: Some invalid data,  in request body. For safer side, don't copy it manually, copy via dedicated copy button on the right top of the code viewer.
```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost/bob/management/v2/policydefinitions' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'X-Api-Key: password' \
--data-raw '{
  "@context": {
    "odrl": "http://www.w3.org/ns/odrl/2/"
  },
  "@type": "PolicyDefinitionRequestDto",
  "@id": "32",
  "policy": {
    "@type": "Policy"
  }
}'
```
